# NetworkDesignForSchool

ABSTRACT:

Designing a network architecture has always been a challenging topic and an active research area. The network has to be analyzed for it to be consistent and reliable. The network design proposal is made to accommodate the requirements for school network design. The project is focused on WLANs and associated wireless technology. Hence, further to wireless technology, the guide also delves into security issues. The network and devices provided by the management have firewall and security software installed in it. The hardware and tools used for the project are Router, Switch, Desktop, Broadband MODEM / Wireless Router, Ethernet cable, Cisco Packet Tracer to create a prototype for the proposal. This project will result in understanding how an organization operates its network architecture, how it administers and maintains the security of the network and what are the challenges faced while architecting the network. A prototype was built which simulates the build and function of the network using virtual tools. This project is to design a suitable network system for schools in developing countries. The aim was to design a network with high security and low cost. This project will help to enhanced education of developing countries. The advantages of networking can be seen clearly in terms of efficiency, security, manageability and cost as it allows collaboration between users in a wide area. To improve college campus network design, the technology used was creating LAN, WLAN and using cheap device to reduce cost of the network. But the network can also become better using routing protocols and other protocol. So, we are going to use such protocols using less number of devices and will also maintain the cost of the network less. To design such network, we are going to use software Cisco-Packet Tracer.

INTRODUCTION:

Networking is referred as connecting computers electronically for the purpose of sharing information. Resources such as a file, applications, printers & software are some common information shared in a networking. The advantages of networking can be seen clearly in terms of security, efficiency, manageability & and cost effectiveness as in allows collaboration between users in a wide range. The Switches and Router this device that play an important role in data transfer from one place to another using different technology such as a radio waves & wire.
A Virtual Private Network (VPN) is a network that is used to create a private scope of computer communications or to provide a secure extension of a private network over an insecure network such as the Internet. IP Sec or Secure Socket Layer can be used to build a VPN (SSL). These are two fundamentally distinct approaches to VPN development. In our work, we concentrated on SSL-based VPNs, sometimes known as SSL VPNs. We have used Cisco Packet Tracer to accomplish this purpose.

A virtual private network (VPN) extends a private network across a public network and enables users to send and receive data across shared or public networks as if their computing devices were directly connected to the private network. The benefits of a VPN include increases in functionality, security, and management of the private network.

VPN provides access to resources that are inaccessible on the public network and is typically used for remote workers. Encryption is common, although not an inherent part of a VPN connection.

A VPN is created by establishing a virtual point-to-point connection through the use of dedicated circuits or with tunneling protocols over existing networks.

A VPN available from the public Internet can provide some of the benefits of a wide area network (WAN). From a user perspective, the resources available within the private network can be accessed remotely.
